Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about array of strings.
So using an array of string
We can manipulate a group of strings very easily
Now the syntax for creating an array of string
is like this where name is the name of the string
array and number of strings is a total number of
strings you want
written within square brackets and one need to specify the
maximum string length also within square brackets
And finally put a semi colon
For example
char str[10][100]
This will create a string called str with 10 strings
each of maximum length 100
Now let us discuss about initialising array of strings
So here we have a string array subject created with
five strings each of maximum length
Now initialising string is similar to initialisation of a
character array
We write the string separated by commas in curly braces
But the difference is that we enclose characters in single
quotes
Where we enclose strings within double quotes
Here we have Tamil English maths science social science
So this is how it will look like in the
memory. First 20 bytes will be given for the first
string
2nd 20 bytes will be given for the second string
and so on
Now let's see an example Programme to print the strings
in an array we have the main function and we
are creating and initialising a string array subject with five
strings and maximum size equal to 20
Now we are initialising with strings Tamil English math science
and social science
Next we have an integer variable declaration for i So i
will be created now using a for loop, We are
going to print each string in the array. so first i equal
to zero and zero is less than five
So condition is true
So we go inside and print subject[0] using
%s format specifier and subject[0] which is
Tamil will be printed and i will be incremented now
equal to one and one is less than five so
condition is true
So we go inside and print subject[1] which
is English
So english is printed and i will be incremented
Now i has become 2 and 2 less than 5
So condition is true
So we go inside and print subject[2] which is
the string maths
So the string maths will be printed and i will
be incremented
Now i equal to three and 3 less than 5
So the condition is true again
So we go inside and print subject[3] which
is science and it will be printed and i will
be incremented
Now i equal to four and four is less than  5
So condition is true
So we go inside and print subject[4] which
is social science and it will be printed and i
will be incremented
Now i has become five and condition becomes false now
5 is not less than 5
So control comes out of the for loop and return
zero
So that's all and thank you for watching this video